## Documentation for 'Adaptive Language Learning' Study Project @UOS

---

### Note for Semester Three

All structural additions and notes relevant to the documentation
for the project's third semester are **emboldened** with an
[S3] tag.

----

### Overview

This repository hosts the resources for a static-site generated by GitHub pages and Jekyll.
The site is intended as a landing page for the project and a host for the project documentation resources.
As such, the generated site contains both marketing-style information and detailed documentation.
The documentation alone is the responsibility of project members.

---

### Structure

The documentation is structured as follows:

**Boldened content denotes semester three additions**  
<ins>Underlined content denotes pages that will be significantly modified during semester three</ins>


<pre>
|-- Project organization
    |-- Overview
    |-- <ins>Design</ins>
    |-- <ins>Implementation</ins>
    |-- Testing
|-- Features
    |-- Learning experience
        |-- Adaptive module
        |-- Achievements
        |-- <strong>Grammatical error correction</strong>
    |-- User experience
        |-- <ins>Storytelling</ins>
        |-- <strong>Visualizations</strong>
        |-- <strong>Support</strong>
|-- Mission tasks
    |-- Sentence correction
    |-- Vocabulary guessing
    |-- <ins>Discussion</ins>
    |-- <strong>Listening</strong>
</pre>

You can find more details on our site structure on [this Mural board](https://app.mural.co/t/personalvisionboard1357/m/personalvisionboard1357/1626770125380/3c0d3087bdfc4cfc68858027b10f0fd7243591e1?sender=u26177583979c89d370329710). For a detailed overview of our planned contributions for semester three, visit [this Notion page](https://www.notion.so/Documentation-e7ae66bf4eaf47a09cd629d65db8f739).

---

### Submission Guidelines

Each group is responsible for the above-delegated section and each member must contribute an appropriate number of words for their project commitment.
Study project participants should contribute approximately 750 words each. Interdisciplinary participants should contribute approximately 500 words each.
Please create a new repository branch **from the semester_three feature branch** for each new page of the website (e.g. a `testing` branch for the testing documentation, a `visualizations` branch for the visualizations documentation, and so on). By **15 August 2021** each group must submit a pull request to merge their
branch with the **semester_three** branch and include in the pull request a comment which details the approximate word-count contributions of each project member. The pull requests will then be reviewed and merged. The final site will then be collectively reviewed before grading submission at the end of August.

### Grading Guidelines

Submitted Documentation (50)
- approx 500 words interdisciplinary, 750 words study project
- Formal aspects (length, scientific language, consistent formatting, proper referencing, good use of figures, screenshots etc.) (20)
- Clear description of implementation/conception/results (20)
- Discussion of limitations, possible additions (10)

---

### Usage

As the site is deployed by GitHub Pages and generated with a Jekyll integration, we do not need to install Ruby or mess with css, we can directly modify Markdown files and quickly see the results on our site.
As stated, group members are only responsible for the raw text/images of their documentation sections,
but if you would like to modify the site template please raise this issue during a group meeting and we will implement a workflow to facilitate this change.

---

This GitHub pages site is based off the free template 'Spectral,' created by HTML5 UP and Andrew Banchich.
Further information on this theme can be found [here](https://github.com/andrewbanchich/spectral-jekyll-theme).
