---
layout: post
title: Overview
sections:
 - title: Introduction
   tag: introduction
 - title: Problem Description
   tag: #problem
 - title: Goals
   tag: #goals
 - title: Justification
   tag: #justification
 - title: Organization
   tag: #organization
 - title: Resources
   tag: #resources
 - title: References
   tag: #references
description: Learn more about the general project goals and theoretical background.
image: pic01.jpg
---

### Introduction to the Project
<div id="introduction"></div>
The student-led study project 'Adaptive Language Learning with AI-Assisted Conversational Agents' began in Summer 2020 as part of the Cognitive Science M.Sc. study program at Universität Osnabrück. The project's aim was to develop a conversational language learning application which emphasized group dynamics while providing minimal instruction. The project's inception can be traced to a short proof-of-concept application facilitating individual verb tense practice. The project, then, aimed to expand upon this initial exploration of the concept with the inclusion of multiple users, additional tasks, and further support from a conversational agent or bot.

### Problem Description
<div id="problem"></div>
During an initial market research and brainstorming phase, we identified several market trends describing the most-common learning scenarios for language practice applications, as well as potential gaps which could be addressed by the proposed application, given that we planned to focus on group interaction, a conversational setting, and adaptive support via a conversational agent and/or AI. While learning environments such as [Duolingo](https://www.duolingo.com/) or [Babbel](https://www.babbel.com/) already employ sophisticated machine learning analysis to adapt learning content to their users, we found their learning scenarios utilized gamified point-and-click dynamics which were not the planned emphasis for the application.

Likewise, conversational learning scenarios such as [Andy English](https://andychatbot.com/) or [Xeropan](https://xeropan.com/), while emphasizing the conversational learning scenario we sought, did so only for individual learners. We could not identify a language learning application which offered both a conversational, bot-supported learning scenario and negotiated interactions between multiple users. Thus, we concluded that our proposed application would address a gap in the language learning market. We looked to language learning forum applications such as [HelloTalk](https://www.hellotalk.com/?lang=en) for inspiration in negotiating group interactions, for although such applications did not employ programmatic methods to coordinate users about a common task, they demonstrated potential challenges for implementing a group learning scenario. The full assessment of available language learning applications can be found in the [Software Requirements Specifications](https://github.com/ALLUOS/ALLUOS.github.io/raw/master/assets/pdfs/software_requirements_specifications.pdf).

### Summary of Project Goals
<div id="goals"></div>
Given the results of the background research and market gap analysis phase, we concluded that an application emphasizing the following functionality requirements would provide an innovative language learning solution:

1. Emphasis on group discussion rather than individual student-teacher instruction.
2. Conversational learning environment rather than button-clicking exercises.
3. Support from an adaptive conversational agent or AI-Assisted bot. The bot should provide language learning support and/or error correction and adapt content to user performance.

In order to facilitate the above criteria, we decided on several additional functionality/design requirements necessary to flesh-out the application specifications before beginning development.

1. The application should negotiate group interaction by coordinating users around a common, language learning task.
2. The application should motivate users to complete tasks by providing a narrative framework for progression. In our case, the chosen scenario is an 'Escape Room' setting, where users must collaborate to escape a fictional confinement.
3. The application should target intermediate level language users (CEFR B1-B2) of approximately 15 years of age.

Further description of design decisions and justifications for these decisions can be found in the [Design](https://alluos.github.io/2020/05/03/design.html) section.

### Justification and Theoretical Background
<div id="justification"></div>
The general application requirements mentioned above are supported by several didactic theories and language learning research. The decision to provide a conversational language learning scenario is supported by the notion of metaphorical user interaction scenarios, which are considered good practice in the field of interaction design. In short, a conversational setting attempts to replicate actual language use scenarios rather than imposing artificial, gamified activities such as drag-and-drop exercises. However, our decision to negotiate group interaction via shared, collaborative tasks poses a counterpoint to the goal of an 'authentic' language usage scenario, as user collaboration is centered around game-like activities which are admittedly not akin to real world interactions.

Nevertheless, we justify the decision to spotlight collaborative group games via the notion of 'engagement' important in the field of E-learning. As Franceschi (2009) explains, 'Educational activities need to be able to engage the students in order to successfully meet the learning goal … Collaboration is a common tool used to increase student engagement.' (p. 5). We concluded that collaborative tasks were a necessary requirement in order to ensure student engagement, although these scenarios would render our conversational setting somewhat artificial.

As implemented, the tasks posed to users are similar to the 'drill-and-practice' activities employed in the aforementioned proof-of-concept application, in which users are sequentially tasked with short exercises leveraging language skills in decontextualized chunks. As such, these activities model the systematic repetition learning paradigm rooted in 1940s behaviorism, which operates on the psychological concept of reinforcement (Lim et al., 2012). Drill-like activities are traditionally seen as monotonous for users. Nevertheless, our approach cannot be exhaustively explained through a behavioristic model, given that we also provide group discussion and collaboration functionality, aligning our application with a hybridized communicative approach. In short, although drill-like scenarios are traditionally monotonous for learners, we attempt to compensate for the potential artificiality of the tasks with emphasis on group collaboration and narrative contextualization.

Our decision to include a fictional, 'escape room' setting, although rendering the learning environment more implausible, is supported by E-learning research which suggests that fictional settings can be both motivating to students and enhance engagement. A study by Chen et al. (2018) identified narrative-based contextualization as a relevant factor for enhancing student learning, where storyline design was highlighted as a crucial application to improve authenticity of language use and improve engagement.

The narrative we chose for our application is an 'escape room' narrative wherein participants must collaborate on activities which effect escape from a fictional confinement. We select this puzzle solving scenario because it is assumed to be familiar to our target user and allows us to contextualize activities which require group coordination. Furthermore, the application of escape rooms in learning settings has been justified in real world contexts via educational research. As Fotaris et al.  (2019) conclude: '... escape rooms can provide an enjoyable experience that immerses students as active participants in the learning environment' (p. 1). Furthermore, the researchers identify escape rooms as successful in emphasizing communication and critical thinking skills during learning activities. Thus, our decision to implement an escape room narrative setting to contextualize the language learning environment is supported by the fact that narrative settings can improve learner engagement and escape rooms support group collaboration, immersion, and communication. Further description of the narrative setting and its implementation can be found in the [Design](https://alluos.github.io/2020/05/03/design.html) and [Implementation](https://alluos.github.io/2020/05/02/implementation.html) sections, respectively.

In summary, we emphasize a conversational, task-oriented language environment because research suggests this will improve student engagement while effecting social interactions which analogize the application to authentic language usage scenarios via a communicative approach to language practice. Additionally, structuring the group interaction via a fictional escape room scenario is suggested to enhance engagement by contextualizing activities and leveraging collaborative communication. Assessment of the project outcome, user-acceptance testing, and outlook can be found in the [Summary and Evaluation](https://alluos.github.io/2020/05/01/evaluation.html) section.

### Organization and Timeline
<div id="organization"></div>
The project is self-organized by student members of the study project team, which is divided into three groups corresponding to the sections of this report.

1. The Implementation team is responsible for the technical side of the application by maintaining the application's codebase and backend infrastructure. This group has documented their work and findings in the [Implementation](https://alluos.github.io/2020/05/02/implementation.html) section.
2. The Design team prepares application functionality mock-ups and user stories which guide the implementation's development in line with the original requirements. This group has documented their work and findings in the [Design](https://alluos.github.io/2020/05/03/design.html) section.
3. The Testing team is responsible for both technical and user-acceptance testing to ensure the application's performance aligns with our team's intent. This group has documented their work and findings, including a preliminary evaluation of the application, in the [Summary and Evaluation](https://alluos.github.io/2020/05/01/evaluation.html) section.

It must be noted that these group descriptions are by no means exhaustive nor fully-descriptive of the responsibilities of the individual groups. For more complete descriptions please refer to the respective documentation sections.

Project progress was controlled with reference to a feature-based waterfall schedule which saw the sequential design and implementation of modular application features following a period of brainstorming and design. For a more complete visualization of the schedule please refer to the [Project Timeline](https://github.com/ALLUOS/ALLUOS.github.io/raw/master/assets/pdfs/timeline.pdf).

### Additional Resources
<div id="resources"></div>
[Software Requirements Specifications](https://github.com/ALLUOS/ALLUOS.github.io/raw/master/assets/pdfs/software_requirements_specifications.pdf)

[Project Timeline](https://github.com/ALLUOS/ALLUOS.github.io/raw/master/assets/pdfs/timeline.pdf)

### References
<div id="references"></div>
Chen, Z.-H & Chen, H.H.-J & Dai, W.-J. (2018). Using narrative-based contextual games to enhance language learning: A case study. Educational Technology and Society. 21. 186-198.

Council of Europe. (2001). Common European framework of reference for languages: Learning, teaching, assessment. Cambridge, U.K: Press Syndicate of the University of Cambridge.

Franceschi K., Lee R., Zanakis S., and Hinds D.. (2009). Engaging Group E-Learning in Virtual Worlds. J. Manage. Inf. Syst. 26, 1 (Number 1 / Summer 2009), 73–100.

Fotaris, Panagiotis & Mastoras, Theodoros. (2019). Escape Rooms for Learning: A Systematic Review.

Lim C.S., Tang K.N., Kor L.K. (2012). Drill and Practice in Learning (and Beyond). In: Seel N.M. (eds)

Sharp (2006). Interaction Design: Beyond Human Computer Interaction. Cornell. Encyclopedia of the Sciences of Learning. Springer, Boston, MA.
