---
layout: post
title: Project Outcomes
sections:
  - title: Paper & Conference Talk
    tag: \#paper
  - title: IKW website
    tag: \#website
  - title: Video
    tag: \#video
  - title: Additional Resources
    tag: \#resources
  - title: References
    tag: \#references
description: Learn more about the public deliverables completed at the end of this two-year study project.
image: pic04.jpg
---

## Contents

1. Paper & Conference Talk
1. IKW website
1. Play-through Video
1. Additional Resources
1. References

<div id="paper"></div>

## Paper & Conference Talk

### Conference submission
In order to nicely wrap up all the improvements of Escapeling that were achieved throughout the second year of the project, we decided to write up these contributions as a paper. To publish the paper, we submitted a session proposal to the [Learning Ideas Conference 2022](https://www.learningideasconf.org/) - the conference where the paper written by the previous cohort of the Escapeling team was also submitted to (Johnson, Urazov and Zanoli, 2021). More specifically, we submitted a short abstract proposing a 30-minute talk consisting of a presentation and demo elements from Escapeling. The proposal was submitted to a special track of the conference – the [ALICE special track](https://www.learningideasconf.org/alice). This is because the focus of the special track matches our application and our reported improvements particularly well, concentrating on chatbots, gamification and technology in online education. The proposal was preliminarily accepted, contingent on the acceptance of the full paper submitted on March 15th 2022. The proposal abstract can be viewed [here](https://www.learningideasconf.org/program).

### Framing of the paper
The goal of the paper is to present the contributions to Escapeling made since the last paper was published (Johnson, Urazov and Zanoli, 2021). Specifically, the major contributions which might be interesting to the general public comprise: different visualizations of the storyline, a new listening task, an improved storyline, the grammatical error correction (GEC) feature of the discussion task, the updated adaptive module, the new lobby platform,  technical game improvements, evaluation and testing of the respective features.  
These updates can be grouped into the conceptual classes of _user experience_ (UX) and _learning experience_ updates. Therefore, a framing focusing on novel updates of UX and the learning experience was chosen. 

To this end, we chose to write a long (12-page) paper. In the learning experience section, we first provide general background about the app and describe existing tasks. We then first introduce the novel [listening task]({{ "" | absolute_url }}/2021/03/01/listening.html), and then present the [GEC]({{ "" | absolute_url }}/2021/02/01/GEC.html) and updated [adaptive module](TBD). We describe these two updates as contributing to a better _pedagogical feedback_ which is an important aspect of an effective learning experience (Russell and Spada, 2006). We chose this framing because end users experience these features through feedback messages they receive when they provide their answers in the mandatory tasks (all tasks except the listening task). 

In the next section, we desribe the [lobby platform](TBD), the updated [storyline]({{ "" | absolute_url }}/2021/01/01/storytelling.html) and the [visualizations]({{ "" | absolute_url }}/2021/01/02/visualizations.html). These additions are presented as improvements of the user experience, mostly due to their role in increasing the affective and motivational aspects of engagement in the game. We motivate these by literature showing the role of emotions for learning success and user experience in app design (Norman, 2005; Zallio and Damon, 2018).

We conclude the paper by presenting the [evaluation results]({{ "" | absolute_url }}/2021/04/01/evaluation.html) of the app available at the time of paper submission. These include the testing results gathered during the third semester of the project, as well as the results of three ESL student interviews and data from 14 Uni Osnabrück students who played the game and completed end user questionnaires. While the first and third evaluation strategies focus on user experience and evaluate respective improvements, the interview results provide qualitative insights into the pedagogical value of Escapeling.

Upon final acceptance and possible revisions, the paper will be published in the proceedings of the conference. 

<div id="website"></div>

## IKW Website

<div id="references"></div>

## References

Johnson, C., Urazov, M., Zanoli, E.: Escapeling: A Gamified, AI-Supported Chatbot for Collaborative Language Practice. In: The Learning Ideas Conference, 141-148. Springer, Cham (2021)

Norman, D. A.: Emotional Design: Why We Love (or Hate) Everyday Things. Basic Books (2005).

Russell, J., Spada, N.: The effectiveness of corrective feedback for the acquisition of L2 grammar. Synthesizing research on language learning and teaching, vol. 13, 133-164 (2006).

Zallio, M., Damon, B.: Computer Aided Drawing software delivered through Emotional Learning. The use of Emoticons and GIFs as a tool for increasing student engagement. In: 32nd International BCS Human Computer Interaction Conference, 1-4. (2018).
